sandbox/5.distributed/README.md, before:

# Distributed AI Agent with a Pluggable Executor

This example demonstrates the power of the `Executor` pattern by running the same complex, graph-based AI agent from the DAG example in a distributed environment using **BullMQ**.

It showcases a client-worker architecture where a client can initiate a workflow, and the actual execution of each node happens as a job processed by one or more separate worker processes. This is a common pattern for building scalable, resilient, and long-running process automation systems.

## Features

- **Pluggable `BullMQExecutor`**: A custom executor that, instead of running nodes in-memory, enqueues them as jobs in a Redis-backed BullMQ queue.
- **Client-Worker Separation**:
  - The **Client** (`src/client.ts`) is a lightweight process that builds the initial context and starts a workflow. This is a non-blocking, "fire-and-forget" operation.
  - The **Worker** (`src/worker.ts`) is a separate, long-running process that listens for jobs, executes the logic for a single node, and enqueues the next node(s) in the graph.
- **State Serialization**: The `Context` is serialized to a plain object and passed between jobs, allowing state to flow through the distributed graph.
- **Distributed Cancellation**: A `runId` is generated for each workflow. You can gracefully abort a running workflow by pressing 'c' in the worker terminal and providing the corresponding `runId`, demonstrating how to manage distributed processes.
- **Resilience & Scalability**: By using a message queue, workflows can survive process restarts. You can run multiple worker processes to handle a high volume of concurrent workflows.
- **Unchanged Business Logic**: The exact same declarative JSON graph definitions from the DAG example are used here. The change in execution environment (in-memory vs. distributed) is completely transparent to the workflow's definition.

## How to Run

1. **Start a Redis Server**: This example requires a running Redis instance for BullMQ. The easiest way is with Docker:

    ```bash
    docker run --name some-redis -d -p 6379:6379 redis
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3. **Set your OpenAI API key**:
    Create a `.env` file in this project's root directory:

    ```
    OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
    ```

4. **Run the Worker**: Open a terminal and start the worker process. It will connect to Redis and wait for jobs.

    ```bash
    npm run worker
    ```

5. **Run the Client**: Open a **second terminal** and run the client. This will kick off the workflow and log a `Run ID` to the console.

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

    You can change the active use-case in `src/client.ts`.

    The client will log a `Run ID` like this:

    ```
    =============================================================
    🚀 Starting Workflow Run ID: ab12
    =============================================================
    ```

    Keep this `Run ID` handy.

6. **(Optional) Cancel the Workflow**:
    - Switch back to the **worker terminal**.
    - Press the `c` key.
    - At the prompt, enter the `Run ID` from the client and press Enter.
    - The worker will signal for cancellation, and any subsequent jobs for that `Run ID` will be aborted.

## How It Works

1. **Client (`client.ts`)**:
    - Generates a unique `runId` for the new workflow execution.
    - Initializes the `WorkflowRegistry` and gets the desired `Flow` definition.
    - Creates an instance of `BullMQExecutor`, pointing to the job queue.
    - Calls `flow.run()` with the custom executor and the `runId`. The executor identifies the starting node(s) of the graph, serializes the initial context, and adds the first job(s) to the BullMQ queue. It then exits.

2. **Worker (`worker.ts`)**:
    - Connects to the same BullMQ queue.
    - The worker's processor function receives a job containing `{ runId, workflowId, nodeId, context }`.
    - **Cancellation Check**: Before doing any work, it checks if a cancellation key (e.g., `workflow:cancel:<runId>`) exists in Redis. If so, it aborts the job.
    - It uses the `WorkflowRegistry` to find the executable `Node` instance corresponding to the `nodeId`.
    - It deserializes the `context` and executes the node's logic (`node._run()`).
    - After execution, it determines the successor node(s) based on the action returned by the node.
    - For each successor, it enqueues a **new job**, passing along the now-updated `context` and the original `runId`.
    - This process repeats until a branch of the workflow completes or is cancelled.

Commit message:

improve distributed aborts
Enhance the distributed worker's cancellation logic to support
immediate, mid-flight termination of long-running jobs.

Previously, cancellation was only checked *before* a node's execution
began. A long-running task (e.g., a 30-second API call or sleep) would
run to completion even if a cancellation was signaled during its
execution. The workflow would only halt at the boundary between jobs.

This change introduces a more robust, resource-aware model:

1.  **AbortSignal Bridging**: For each job, the worker now creates a
job-specific `AbortController`.

2.  **Redis Polling**: A `setInterval` loop polls a Redis cancellation
key (e.g., `workflow:cancel:<runId>`) every 500ms. If the key is found,
it triggers the job's `AbortController`.

3.  **Framework Compliance**: The `controller.signal` is now correctly
passed to `node._run()`, allowing any core framework feature or custom
node logic that respects the standard `AbortSignal` to be interrupted
immediately.

4.  **Graceful Error Handling**: The resulting `AbortError` is caught
and handled gracefully, preventing BullMQ from treating a successfu
cancellation as a job failure that needs to be retried.

This ensures that resources are not wasted on nodes that have been
cancelled and makes the distributed execution model behave more
consistently with the in-memory executor's cancellation pattern.

sandbox/5.distributed/README.md, after:

# Distributed AI Agent with a Pluggable Executor

This example demonstrates the power of the `Executor` pattern by running the same complex, graph-based AI agent from the DAG example in a distributed environment using **BullMQ**.

It showcases a client-worker architecture where a client can initiate a workflow, and the actual execution of each node happens as a job processed by one or more separate worker processes. This is a common pattern for building scalable, resilient, and long-running process automation systems.

## Features

- **Pluggable `BullMQExecutor`**: A custom executor that, instead of running nodes in-memory, enqueues them as jobs in a Redis-backed BullMQ queue.
- **Client-Worker Separation**:
  - The **Client** (`src/client.ts`) is a lightweight process that builds the initial context and starts a workflow. This is a non-blocking, "fire-and-forget" operation.
  - The **Worker** (`src/worker.ts`) is a separate, long-running process that listens for jobs, executes the logic for a single node, and enqueues the next node(s) in the graph.
- **State Serialization**: The `Context` is serialized to a plain object and passed between jobs, allowing state to flow through the distributed graph.
- **Distributed Cancellation**: A `runId` is generated for each workflow. You can gracefully abort a running workflow by pressing 'c' in the worker terminal and providing the corresponding `runId`, demonstrating how to manage distributed processes.
- **Resilience & Scalability**: By using a message queue, workflows can survive process restarts. You can run multiple worker processes to handle a high volume of concurrent workflows.
- **Unchanged Business Logic**: The exact same declarative JSON graph definitions from the DAG example are used here. The change in execution environment (in-memory vs. distributed) is completely transparent to the workflow's definition.

## How to Run

1. **Start a Redis Server**: This example requires a running Redis instance for BullMQ. The easiest way is with Docker:

    ```bash
    docker run --name some-redis -d -p 6379:6379 redis
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3. **Set your OpenAI API key**:
    Create a `.env` file in this project's root directory:

    ```
    OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
    ```

4. **Run the Worker**: Open a terminal and start the worker process. It will connect to Redis and wait for jobs.

    ```bash
    npm run worker
    ```

5. **Run the Client**: Open a **second terminal** and run the client. This will kick off the workflow and log a `Run ID` to the console.

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

    You can change the active use-case in `src/client.ts`.

    The client will log a `Run ID` like this:

    ```
    =============================================================
    🚀 Starting Workflow Run ID: ab12
    =============================================================
    ```

    Keep this `Run ID` handy.

6. **(Optional) Cancel the Workflow**:
    - Switch back to the **worker terminal**.
    - Press the `c` key.
    - At the prompt, enter the `Run ID` from the client and press Enter.
    - The worker will signal for cancellation, and any subsequent jobs for that `Run ID` will be aborted.

## How It Works

1. **Client (`client.ts`)**:
    - Generates a unique `runId` for the new workflow execution.
    - Initializes the `WorkflowRegistry` and gets the desired `Flow` definition.
    - Creates an instance of `BullMQExecutor`, pointing to the job queue.
    - Calls `flow.run()` with the custom executor and the `runId`. The executor identifies the starting node(s) of the graph, serializes the initial context, and adds the first job(s) to the BullMQ queue. It then exits.

2. **Worker (`worker.ts`)**:
    - Connects to the same BullMQ queue.
    - The worker's processor function receives a job containing `{ runId, workflowId, nodeId, context }`.
    - **Mid-flight Cancellation**: For each job, the worker starts polling a cancellation key in Redis (e.g., `workflow:cancel:<runId>`). If this key appears, it triggers a standard `AbortController`, which immediately interrupts any cancellable logic within the currently running node (e.g., a long `sleep` or API call).
    - It uses the `WorkflowRegistry` to find the executable `Node` instance corresponding to the `nodeId`.
    - It deserializes the `context` and executes the node's logic (`node._run()`), passing the `AbortSignal` to it.
    - After execution, it determines the successor node(s) based on the action returned by the node.
    - For each successor, it enqueues a **new job**, passing along the now-updated `context` and the original `runId`.
    - This process repeats until a branch of the workflow completes or is cancelled.
