docs/guide/best-practices/debugging.md, before:

# Best Practices: Debugging Workflows

Debugging multi-step, asynchronous workflows can be challenging. State can change in unexpected ways, and control flow can be complex. Cascade is designed with debuggability in mind and provides several tools and patterns to help you pinpoint issues quickly.

This guide covers the most effective techniques for debugging your workflows.

## 1. Inspect Data Flow with `.tap()`

The most common debugging task is inspecting the data at a certain point in a processing pipeline. Instead of breaking your fluent chain to insert a `console.log`, use the `.tap()` method.

`.tap()` receives the result of the previous step, allows you to perform a side-effect (like logging), and then passes the original result through to the next step, completely unmodified.

**Scenario**: You have a chain of `.map()` calls and want to see the intermediate result.

```typescript
import { Node, contextKey } from 'cascade'

const FINAL_RESULT = contextKey<string>('final_result')

// A node that fetches a user object
const fetchUserNode = new Node().exec(() => ({ id: 123, name: 'Alice', email: 'alice@test.com' }))

const processUser = fetchUserNode
  .map(user => ({ ...user, name: user.name.toUpperCase() }))
  // Let's inspect the data right here!
  .tap(intermediateResult => {
    console.log('[DEBUG] After capitalization:', intermediateResult)
  })
  .map(user => `User ID: ${user.id}, Name: ${user.name}`)
  .toContext(FINAL_RESULT)

// When this runs, the debug log will print the intermediate object.
```

## 2. Trace Execution with the Logger

When your problem is about *control flow* ("Why did my workflow take the wrong branch?"), the logger is your best friend. By passing a `ConsoleLogger` to your `flow.run()` call, you get a detailed, step-by-step trace of the entire execution.

The logger will show:

- Which node is currently running.
- The **action** string returned by each node.
- The successor node chosen for that action.
- Warnings for retry attempts and errors for fallback execution.

```typescript
import { Flow, ConsoleLogger, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

// Assume you have a conditional flow set up
const myFlow = createMyConditionalFlow()
const context = new TypedContext()

// Run the flow with a logger enabled
await myFlow.run(context, { logger: new ConsoleLogger() })
```

**Example Log Output**:

```
[INFO] Running flow: MyFlow
[INFO] Running node: CheckConditionNode
[DEBUG] Action 'action_approve' from CheckConditionNode leads to ApproveNode
[INFO] Running node: ApproveNode
[INFO] Flow ends: Action 'Symbol(default)' from ApproveNode has no configured successor.
```

This output makes it immediately clear that `CheckConditionNode` returned `'action_approve'`, which led to `ApproveNode`.

## 3. Visualize Your Graph with `generateMermaidGraph`

Sometimes the problem isn't the logic inside your nodes, but the way you've wired them together. It's easy to make a mistake with `.next()`, creating a dead end or an incorrect branch.

Cascade includes a `generateMermaidGraph` utility that creates a visual representation of your `Flow`'s structure. You can paste the output into any Mermaid.js renderer (like the one in the GitHub or VS Code markdown preview) to see your workflow.

```typescript
import { generateMermaidGraph } from 'cascade'
import { createMyComplexFlow } from './my-flows'

const complexFlow = createMyComplexFlow()

// Generate the Mermaid syntax
const mermaidSyntax = generateMermaidGraph(complexFlow)

console.log(mermaidSyntax)
/*
Outputs something like:
graph TD
  StartNode_0[StartNode]
  DecisionNode_0[DecisionNode]
  PathANode_0[PathANode]
  PathBNode_0[PathBNode]
  EndNode_0[EndNode]
  StartNode_0 --> DecisionNode_0
  DecisionNode_0 -- "go_a" --> PathANode_0
  DecisionNode_0 -- "go_b" --> PathBNode_0
  PathANode_0 --> EndNode_0
  PathBNode_0 --> EndNode_0
*/
```

This is the fastest way to verify that your graph is connected as you intend.

## 4. Isolate Nodes with `.run()`

If a single node is behaving incorrectly within a large flow, you can debug it in isolation by calling its own `.run()` method. This lets you test its lifecycle (`prep`, `exec`, `post`) without the complexity of the entire workflow.

1. Create a `TypedContext` and manually set any values the node's `prep` phase needs.
2. Call `node.run(context)`.
3. Assert that the `Context` contains the expected values after the run, verifying your `post` logic.

This pattern is also the foundation for unit testing your nodes.

```typescript
// Assume this node is failing in your main flow
class AddTenNode extends Node {
  async prep({ ctx }) { return ctx.get(INPUT) || 0 }
  async exec({ prepRes: value }) { return value + 10 }
  async post({ ctx, execRes: result }) { ctx.set(OUTPUT, result) }
}

// --- Debugging it in isolation ---
const nodeToDebug = new AddTenNode()
const debugContext = new TypedContext([
  [INPUT, 5] // Manually set up the required context
])

console.log('--- Running node in isolation ---')
await nodeToDebug.run(debugContext, { logger: new ConsoleLogger() })

// Check the result
console.log(`Final value in context: ${debugContext.get(OUTPUT)}`) // Should be 15
```

## Common Pitfalls

If your workflow isn't behaving as expected, check for these common issues:

- **Forgetting `await flow.run()`**: Since workflows are asynchronous, forgetting to `await` the top-level `run()` call will cause your script to exit before the workflow can complete.
- **Context Key Collisions**: In large, composed flows, different sub-flows might accidentally write to the same context key, overwriting each other's data. Using descriptive, unique `ContextKey`s helps prevent this.
- **Infinite Loops**: If you create a cycle in your graph, make sure your "decider" node has a reliable exit condition. Use the logger to trace the loop and see if the context state is changing as expected on each iteration.
- **Mutating Objects in Context**: If you place a mutable object (like `{}`, `[]`) in the context, any node can modify it. This can lead to unexpected behavior if one node changes an object that a later node relies on. It's often safer for nodes to create new objects/arrays rather than modifying existing ones in place.

Commit message:

docs admonitions & alerts
Add Admonitions for Better Guidance

Strategically placed alerts (`[!NOTE]`, `[!TIP]`, `[!IMPORTANT]`,
`[!CAUTION]`, etc.) have been added throughout the guides and API
reference to:
- Highlight best practices (e.g., using `contextKey` over strings).
- Warn about potential pitfalls (e.g., `JSON.stringify` limitations,
shared context in sub-flows).
- Guide the user's attention to crucial information for success (e.g.,
how cancellation and retries work).

These changes make the documentation more proactive, helping developers
understand core design principles and avoid common mistakes.

docs/guide/best-practices/debugging.md, after:

# Best Practices: Debugging Workflows

Debugging multi-step, asynchronous workflows can be challenging. State can change in unexpected ways, and control flow can be complex. Cascade is designed with debuggability in mind and provides several tools and patterns to help you pinpoint issues quickly.

This guide covers the most effective techniques for debugging your workflows.

## 1. Inspect Data Flow with `.tap()`

> [!TIP]
> The `.tap()` method is your best friend for non-disruptive debugging. It's the cleanest way to inspect data mid-pipeline without breaking a fluent chain.

Instead of breaking your chain to insert a `console.log`, use the `.tap()` method. It receives the result of the previous step, allows you to perform a side-effect (like logging), and then passes the original result through to the next step, completely unmodified.

**Scenario**: You have a chain of `.map()` calls and want to see the intermediate result.

```typescript
import { Node, contextKey } from 'cascade'

const FINAL_RESULT = contextKey<string>('final_result')

// A node that fetches a user object
const fetchUserNode = new Node().exec(() => ({ id: 123, name: 'Alice', email: 'alice@test.com' }))

const processUser = fetchUserNode
  .map(user => ({ ...user, name: user.name.toUpperCase() }))
  // Let's inspect the data right here!
  .tap(intermediateResult => {
    console.log('[DEBUG] After capitalization:', intermediateResult)
  })
  .map(user => `User ID: ${user.id}, Name: ${user.name}`)
  .toContext(FINAL_RESULT)

// When this runs, the debug log will print the intermediate object.
```

## 2. Trace Execution with the Logger

When your problem is about *control flow* ("Why did my workflow take the wrong branch?"), the logger is your best friend. By passing a `ConsoleLogger` to your `flow.run()` call, you get a detailed, step-by-step trace of the entire execution.

The logger will show:

- Which node is currently running.
- The **action** string returned by each node.
- The successor node chosen for that action.
- Warnings for retry attempts and errors for fallback execution.

```typescript
import { Flow, ConsoleLogger, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

// Assume you have a conditional flow set up
const myFlow = createMyConditionalFlow()
const context = new TypedContext()

// Run the flow with a logger enabled
await myFlow.run(context, { logger: new ConsoleLogger() })
```

**Example Log Output**:

```
[INFO] Running flow: MyFlow
[INFO] Running node: CheckConditionNode
[DEBUG] Action 'action_approve' from CheckConditionNode leads to ApproveNode
[INFO] Running node: ApproveNode
[INFO] Flow ends: Action 'Symbol(default)' from ApproveNode has no configured successor.
```

This output makes it immediately clear that `CheckConditionNode` returned `'action_approve'`, which led to `ApproveNode`.

## 3. Visualize Your Graph with `generateMermaidGraph`

Sometimes the problem isn't the logic inside your nodes, but the way you've wired them together. It's easy to make a mistake with `.next()`, creating a dead end or an incorrect branch.

Cascade includes a `generateMermaidGraph` utility that creates a visual representation of your `Flow`'s structure. You can paste the output into any Mermaid.js renderer (like the one in the GitHub or VS Code markdown preview) to see your workflow.

```typescript
import { generateMermaidGraph } from 'cascade'
import { createMyComplexFlow } from './my-flows'

const complexFlow = createMyComplexFlow()

// Generate the Mermaid syntax
const mermaidSyntax = generateMermaidGraph(complexFlow)

console.log(mermaidSyntax)
/*
Outputs something like:
graph TD
  StartNode_0[StartNode]
  DecisionNode_0[DecisionNode]
  PathANode_0[PathANode]
  PathBNode_0[PathBNode]
  EndNode_0[EndNode]
  StartNode_0 --> DecisionNode_0
  DecisionNode_0 -- "go_a" --> PathANode_0
  DecisionNode_0 -- "go_b" --> PathBNode_0
  PathANode_0 --> EndNode_0
  PathBNode_0 --> EndNode_0
*/
```

This is the fastest way to verify that your graph is connected as you intend.

## 4. Isolate Nodes with `.run()`

If a single node is behaving incorrectly within a large flow, you can debug it in isolation by calling its own `.run()` method. This lets you test its lifecycle (`prep`, `exec`, `post`) without the complexity of the entire workflow.

1. Create a `TypedContext` and manually set any values the node's `prep` phase needs.
2. Call `node.run(context)`.
3. Assert that the `Context` contains the expected values after the run, verifying your `post` logic.

This pattern is also the foundation for unit testing your nodes.

```typescript
// Assume this node is failing in your main flow
class AddTenNode extends Node {
  async prep({ ctx }) { return ctx.get(INPUT) || 0 }
  async exec({ prepRes: value }) { return value + 10 }
  async post({ ctx, execRes: result }) { ctx.set(OUTPUT, result) }
}

// --- Debugging it in isolation ---
const nodeToDebug = new AddTenNode()
const debugContext = new TypedContext([
  [INPUT, 5] // Manually set up the required context
])

console.log('--- Running node in isolation ---')
await nodeToDebug.run(debugContext, { logger: new ConsoleLogger() })

// Check the result
console.log(`Final value in context: ${debugContext.get(OUTPUT)}`) // Should be 15
```

## Common Pitfalls

If your workflow isn't behaving as expected, check for these common issues:

- **Forgetting `await flow.run()`**: Since workflows are asynchronous, forgetting to `await` the top-level `run()` call will cause your script to exit before the workflow can complete.
- **Context Key Collisions**: In large, composed flows, different sub-flows might accidentally write to the same context key, overwriting each other's data. Using descriptive, unique `ContextKey`s helps prevent this.
- **Infinite Loops**: If you create a cycle in your graph, make sure your "decider" node has a reliable exit condition. Use the logger to trace the loop and see if the context state is changing as expected on each iteration.
- **Mutating Objects in Context**: If you place a mutable object (like `{}`, `[]`) in the context, any node can modify it. This can lead to unexpected behavior if one node changes an object that a later node relies on. It's often safer for nodes to create new objects/arrays rather than modifying existing ones in place.
