docs/guide/best-practices/state-management.md, before:

# Best Practices: State Management

The `Context` is the heart of a running workflow, acting as its shared memory. Managing the state within the `Context` effectively is one of the most important skills for building clean, maintainable, and scalable workflows in Cascade.

## 1. Always Use `ContextKey` for Type Safety

This is the most important rule. While the `Context` supports string-based keys for flexibility, you should always prefer using `contextKey` to define your keys.

**Why?**

- **Compile-Time Safety**: The TypeScript compiler will catch typos and type mismatches. If you try to `set` a `number` to a `ContextKey<string>`, your code won't compile.
- **No Typos**: `ctx.get('user_id')` vs. `ctx.get('userId')` is a common runtime bug. `ctx.get(USER_ID)` is checked by the compiler.
- **Easy Refactoring**: Renaming a `ContextKey` is a simple, safe refactoring operation in any modern IDE. Renaming a string key across a large codebase is risky.

```typescript
import { contextKey, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

// --- BAD: Using strings ---
const ctxStrings = new TypedContext()
ctxStrings.set('user_id', 123) // 'user_id' is just a string, no type info
const id_bad = ctxStrings.get('user_id') // Type is 'any'

// --- GOOD: Using ContextKey ---
const USER_ID = contextKey<number>('A key for the user ID')

const ctxTyped = new TypedContext()
ctxTyped.set(USER_ID, 123)
const id_good = ctxTyped.get(USER_ID) // Type is 'number | undefined'
```

## 2. Keep the Context Minimal

The `Context` should not be a dumping ground for all data ever generated in the workflow. A lean context makes your workflow easier to debug and reason about.

**Principle**: A piece of data should only be in the `Context` if it is **required by a subsequent node**.

If a node generates intermediate data that is only used within that same node, it should be stored in a local variable, not written to the `Context`.

```typescript
import { Node } from 'cascade'

class DataProcessorNode extends Node {
  async exec({ prepRes: data }) {
    // BAD: Don't put temporary data in the context
    // ctx.set(TEMP_VALUE, data.a + data.b)
    // const intermediate = ctx.get(TEMP_VALUE)
    // return intermediate * 2

    // GOOD: Use local variables for intermediate steps
    const intermediate = data.a + data.b
    return intermediate * 2
  }
}
```

## 3. Use `params` for Static Input

Distinguish between *dynamic state* and *static configuration*.

- **Dynamic State**: Data generated by a previous node that changes during the workflow's execution. This belongs in the **`Context`**.
- **Static Configuration**: Data provided to a node or flow when it starts, which does not change. This belongs in **`params`**.

Using `params` makes your nodes more reusable and their dependencies more explicit.

```typescript
import { Node, contextKey } from 'cascade'

const NUMBER_TO_ADD = contextKey<number>('number_to_add')
const CURRENT_VALUE = contextKey<number>('current_value')

// --- BAD: Configuration is mixed with state ---
// This node's behavior depends on a value that must be in the context.
class AddNumberFromContext extends Node {
  async exec({ ctx }) {
    const valueToAdd = ctx.get(NUMBER_TO_ADD) // less reusable
    return ctx.get(CURRENT_VALUE) + valueToAdd
  }
}

// --- GOOD: Configuration is passed as a parameter ---
// This node is self-contained. Its configuration comes from its params.
class AddNumberFromParams extends Node {
  async exec({ ctx, params }) {
    const valueToAdd = params.amount // much more reusable
    return ctx.get(CURRENT_VALUE) + valueToAdd
  }
}

// Usage:
const node = new AddNumberFromParams().withParams({ amount: 10 })
```

## 4. Isolate State Within Sub-Flows

When you use composition (a `Flow` within a `Flow`), the sub-flow shares the same `Context` as its parent. To maintain modularity, a sub-flow should not pollute the parent's `Context` with its own internal, temporary state.

**Best Practice**: A sub-flow should only write its final, essential outputs to the `Context`. If possible, use a dedicated output node within the sub-flow to aggregate results and clean up any temporary keys.

The `SubWorkflowNode` in the `sandbox/4.dag` example demonstrates an advanced pattern for this. By defining explicit `input` and `output` maps, it creates a clean data boundary, preventing any leakage of temporary state. For a detailed explanation of this powerful pattern, see the guide on **[Data Flow in Sub-Workflows](./sub-workflow-data.md)**.

## 5. Plan for Serialization

While the `InMemoryExecutor` can handle any JavaScript object in the `Context`, your workflow's state may need to be saved, logged, or sent over a network (as in the `BullMQExecutor` example). Standard `JSON.stringify` is lossy and will not correctly preserve complex data types.

**Common data types that break `JSON.stringify`:**

- `Date` objects (are converted to strings)
- `Map` and `Set` objects (are converted to empty objects `{}`)
- Custom class instances (lose their methods and class identity)
- `Symbol` keys (are dropped entirely)

To build robust, stateful workflows, it is a best practice to use a library that handles this automatically.

**Best Practice**: Use a library like [`superjson`](https://github.com/blitz-js/superjson) to serialize and deserialize your context. It transparently handles all common JavaScript types, ensuring that the state you save is the same as the state you load.

The **[Advanced RAG Agent](https://github.com/gorango/tree/master/sandbox/6.rag/) example** was specifically designed to demonstrate this principle. It uses `superjson` to correctly manage a `Context` containing `Map`, `Date`, and custom class instances, making its state reliable and easy to inspect.

Commit message:

docs admonitions & alerts
Add Admonitions for Better Guidance

Strategically placed alerts (`[!NOTE]`, `[!TIP]`, `[!IMPORTANT]`,
`[!CAUTION]`, etc.) have been added throughout the guides and API
reference to:
- Highlight best practices (e.g., using `contextKey` over strings).
- Warn about potential pitfalls (e.g., `JSON.stringify` limitations,
shared context in sub-flows).
- Guide the user's attention to crucial information for success (e.g.,
how cancellation and retries work).

These changes make the documentation more proactive, helping developers
understand core design principles and avoid common mistakes.

docs/guide/best-practices/state-management.md, after:

# Best Practices: State Management

The `Context` is the heart of a running workflow, acting as its shared memory. Managing the state within the `Context` effectively is one of the most important skills for building clean, maintainable, and scalable workflows in Cascade.

## 1. Always Use `ContextKey` for Type Safety

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This is the most important rule for state management. Always prefer `contextKey()` over raw strings to access the `Context`.

**Why?**

- **Compile-Time Safety**: The TypeScript compiler will catch typos and type mismatches. If you try to `set` a `number` to a `ContextKey<string>`, your code won't compile.
- **No Typos**: `ctx.get('user_id')` vs. `ctx.get('userId')` is a common runtime bug. `ctx.get(USER_ID)` is checked by the compiler.
- **Easy Refactoring**: Renaming a `ContextKey` is a simple, safe refactoring operation in any modern IDE. Renaming a string key across a large codebase is risky.

```typescript
import { contextKey, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

// --- BAD: Using strings ---
const ctxStrings = new TypedContext()
ctxStrings.set('user_id', 123) // 'user_id' is just a string, no type info
const id_bad = ctxStrings.get('user_id') // Type is 'any'

// --- GOOD: Using ContextKey ---
const USER_ID = contextKey<number>('A key for the user ID')

const ctxTyped = new TypedContext()
ctxTyped.set(USER_ID, 123)
const id_good = ctxTyped.get(USER_ID) // Type is 'number | undefined'
```

## 2. Keep the Context Minimal

The `Context` should not be a dumping ground for all data ever generated in the workflow. A lean context makes your workflow easier to debug and reason about.

**Principle**: A piece of data should only be in the `Context` if it is **required by a subsequent node**.

If a node generates intermediate data that is only used within that same node, it should be stored in a local variable, not written to the `Context`.

```typescript
import { Node } from 'cascade'

class DataProcessorNode extends Node {
  async exec({ prepRes: data }) {
    // BAD: Don't put temporary data in the context
    // ctx.set(TEMP_VALUE, data.a + data.b)
    // const intermediate = ctx.get(TEMP_VALUE)
    // return intermediate * 2

    // GOOD: Use local variables for intermediate steps
    const intermediate = data.a + data.b
    return intermediate * 2
  }
}
```

## 3. Use `params` for Static Input

Distinguish between *dynamic state* and *static configuration*.

- **Dynamic State**: Data generated by a previous node that changes during the workflow's execution. This belongs in the **`Context`**.
- **Static Configuration**: Data provided to a node or flow when it starts, which does not change. This belongs in **`params`**.

Using `params` makes your nodes more reusable and their dependencies more explicit.

```typescript
import { Node, contextKey } from 'cascade'

const NUMBER_TO_ADD = contextKey<number>('number_to_add')
const CURRENT_VALUE = contextKey<number>('current_value')

// --- BAD: Configuration is mixed with state ---
// This node's behavior depends on a value that must be in the context.
class AddNumberFromContext extends Node {
  async exec({ ctx }) {
    const valueToAdd = ctx.get(NUMBER_TO_ADD) // less reusable
    return ctx.get(CURRENT_VALUE) + valueToAdd
  }
}

// --- GOOD: Configuration is passed as a parameter ---
// This node is self-contained. Its configuration comes from its params.
class AddNumberFromParams extends Node {
  async exec({ ctx, params }) {
    const valueToAdd = params.amount // much more reusable
    return ctx.get(CURRENT_VALUE) + valueToAdd
  }
}

// Usage:
const node = new AddNumberFromParams().withParams({ amount: 10 })
```

## 4. Isolate State Within Sub-Flows

When you use composition (a `Flow` within a `Flow`), the sub-flow shares the same `Context` as its parent. To maintain modularity, a sub-flow should not pollute the parent's `Context` with its own internal, temporary state.

**Best Practice**: A sub-flow should only write its final, essential outputs to the `Context`. If possible, use a dedicated output node within the sub-flow to aggregate results and clean up any temporary keys.

The `SubWorkflowNode` in the `sandbox/4.dag` example demonstrates an advanced pattern for this. By defining explicit `input` and `output` maps, it creates a clean data boundary, preventing any leakage of temporary state. For a detailed explanation of this powerful pattern, see the guide on **[Data Flow in Sub-Workflows](./sub-workflow-data.md)**.

## 5. Plan for Serialization

> [!WARNING]
> **Standard `JSON.stringify` is Lossy!**
> While the `InMemoryExecutor` can handle any JavaScript object, your workflow's state may need to be saved or sent over a network (as in the `BullMQExecutor` example). Standard `JSON.stringify` will not correctly preserve complex data types and can lead to silent data loss or bugs.

**Common data types that break `JSON.stringify`:**

- `Date` objects (are converted to strings)
- `Map` and `Set` objects (are converted to empty objects `{}`)
- Custom class instances (lose their methods and class identity)
- `Symbol` keys (are dropped entirely)

To build robust, stateful workflows, it is a best practice to use a library that handles this automatically.

> [!TIP]
> Use a library like [`superjson`](https://github.com/blitz-js/superjson) to serialize and deserialize your context. It transparently handles all common JavaScript types, ensuring that the state you save is the same as the state you load.

The **[Advanced RAG Agent](https://github.com/gorango/tree/master/sandbox/6.rag/) example** was specifically designed to demonstrate this principle. It uses `superjson` to correctly manage a `Context` containing `Map`, `Date`, and custom class instances, making its state reliable and easy to inspect.
