docs/guide/batch-processing.md, before:

# Batch Processing

A common workflow requirement is to perform the same operation on every item in a collection, often in parallel to save time. This is known as the **scatter-gather** pattern. Flowcraft provides a high-level `.batch()` method on the `Flow` builder to make this easy.

## The `.batch()` Method

The `.batch()` method automatically creates the necessary nodes and logic to:
1.	**Scatter**: Take an array from the context.
2.	**Process**: Schedule a dynamic "worker" node for each item in the array, running them in parallel.
3.	**Gather**: Wait for all worker nodes to complete and collect their results into a new array.

Here's the method signature:
```typescript
flow.batch(
	id: string, // A base ID for the batch operation
	worker: NodeFunction | NodeClass, // The implementation for the worker node
	options: {
		inputKey: string, // The context key holding the source array
		outputKey: string, // The context key where the results array will be saved
	}
)
```

## Example: Processing an Array in Parallel

Let's create a workflow that takes an array of numbers, doubles each one in parallel, and then sums the results.

```typescript
import { createFlow } from 'flowcraft';

const flow = createFlow("batch-workflow")
	// 1. Start node provides the initial array.
	.node("start", async () => ({ output: }))

	// 2. Define the batch operation.
	.batch("double-items",
		// This worker function will run for each item (10, 20, and 30).
		async ({ input }) => ({ output: input * 2 }),
		{
			inputKey: "start",		// Read the array from the output of the 'start' node.
			outputKey: "doubled",	// Save the results array to `context.doubled`.
		},
	)

	// 3. A final node runs after the batch is complete.
	.node("sum-results",
		// Its input is the array of results from the batch operation.
		async ({ input }) => {
			const sum = input.reduce((acc, val) => acc + val, 0); // 20 + 40 + 60 = 120
			return { output: sum };
		},
		{ inputs: "doubled" }, // Map the batch output to this node's input.
	)

	// 4. Wire the dependencies.
	// The output of 'start' goes to the scatter part of the batch.
	.edge("start", "double-items_scatter")
	// The output of the gather part of the batch goes to 'sum-results'.
	.edge("double-items_gather", "sum-results")
	.toBlueprint();
```

## How It Looks

Behind the scenes, `.batch()` creates a `scatter` and a `gather` node. The workflow graph looks like this:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	start["start"] --> scatter["double-items_scatter"]
	subgraph "Parallel Workers"
		scatter --> worker1["worker(10)"]
		scatter --> worker2["worker(20)"]
		scatter --> worker3["worker(30)"]
	end
	worker1 --> gather["double-items_gather"]
	worker2 --> gather
	worker3 --> gather
	gather --> sum["sum-results"]
```

The runtime dynamically creates and executes the worker nodes, providing a powerful and simple API for parallel processing.

## Performance Considerations

When running workflows with batch operations that process large arrays, you may want to control the level of parallelism to avoid overwhelming your system resources. You can use the `concurrency` option in the `runtime.run()` method to limit the number of nodes that execute simultaneously:

```typescript
const result = await runtime.run(blueprint, initialState, {
  functionRegistry: flow.getFunctionRegistry(),
  concurrency: 10, // Limit to 10 concurrent nodes
});
```

This is particularly useful for batch operations where each worker node performs resource-intensive tasks, ensuring your application remains stable under load.

Commit message:

improve batch pattern robustness and type safety
- Add runtime validation in batch-scatter to throw
FatalNodeExecutionError for non-array inputs
- Enhance Flow.batch method with keyof TContext for compile-time
validation of inputKey and outputKey

docs/guide/batch-processing.md, after:

# Batch Processing

A common workflow requirement is to perform the same operation on every item in a collection, often in parallel to save time. This is known as the **scatter-gather** pattern. Flowcraft provides a high-level `.batch()` method on the `Flow` builder to make this easy.

## The `.batch()` Method

The `.batch()` method automatically creates the necessary nodes and logic to:
1.	**Scatter**: Take an array from the context.
2.	**Process**: Schedule a dynamic "worker" node for each item in the array, running them in parallel.
3.	**Gather**: Wait for all worker nodes to complete and collect their results into a new array.

 Here's the method signature:
 ```typescript
 flow.batch(
 	id: string, // A base ID for the batch operation
 	worker: NodeFunction | NodeClass, // The implementation for the worker node
 	options: {
 		inputKey: keyof TContext, // The context key holding the source array
 		outputKey: keyof TContext, // The context key where the results array will be saved
 	}
 )
 ```

 **Note:** The `inputKey` and `outputKey` options now use `keyof TContext` for compile-time validation, ensuring they match valid keys in your workflow's context type. This provides better IDE support and catches type mismatches early.

## Example: Processing an Array in Parallel

Let's create a workflow that takes an array of numbers, doubles each one in parallel, and then sums the results.

```typescript
import { createFlow } from 'flowcraft';

const flow = createFlow("batch-workflow")
	// 1. Start node provides the initial array.
	.node("start", async () => ({ output: }))

	// 2. Define the batch operation.
	.batch("double-items",
		// This worker function will run for each item (10, 20, and 30).
		async ({ input }) => ({ output: input * 2 }),
		{
			inputKey: "start",		// Read the array from the output of the 'start' node.
			outputKey: "doubled",	// Save the results array to `context.doubled`.
		},
	)

	// 3. A final node runs after the batch is complete.
	.node("sum-results",
		// Its input is the array of results from the batch operation.
		async ({ input }) => {
			const sum = input.reduce((acc, val) => acc + val, 0); // 20 + 40 + 60 = 120
			return { output: sum };
		},
		{ inputs: "doubled" }, // Map the batch output to this node's input.
	)

	// 4. Wire the dependencies.
	// The output of 'start' goes to the scatter part of the batch.
	.edge("start", "double-items_scatter")
	// The output of the gather part of the batch goes to 'sum-results'.
	.edge("double-items_gather", "sum-results")
	.toBlueprint();
```

## How It Looks

Behind the scenes, `.batch()` creates a `scatter` and a `gather` node. The workflow graph looks like this:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	start["start"] --> scatter["double-items_scatter"]
	subgraph "Parallel Workers"
		scatter --> worker1["worker(10)"]
		scatter --> worker2["worker(20)"]
		scatter --> worker3["worker(30)"]
	end
	worker1 --> gather["double-items_gather"]
	worker2 --> gather
	worker3 --> gather
	gather --> sum["sum-results"]
```

The runtime dynamically creates and executes the worker nodes, providing a powerful and simple API for parallel processing.

## Performance Considerations

When running workflows with batch operations that process large arrays, you may want to control the level of parallelism to avoid overwhelming your system resources. You can use the `concurrency` option in the `runtime.run()` method to limit the number of nodes that execute simultaneously:

```typescript
const result = await runtime.run(blueprint, initialState, {
  functionRegistry: flow.getFunctionRegistry(),
  concurrency: 10, // Limit to 10 concurrent nodes
});
```

This is particularly useful for batch operations where each worker node performs resource-intensive tasks, ensuring your application remains stable under load.
