docs/guide/loops.md, before:

# Loops

For workflows that require iteration, Flowcraft provides a `.loop()` method on the `Flow` builder. This allows you to execute a portion of your graph repeatedly until a condition is met.

### The `.loop()` Method

The `.loop()` method creates a special `loop-controller` node that manages the iteration. After the last node in the loop body executes, the controller evaluates a condition to decide whether to run the loop again or exit.

Here's the method signature:
```typescript
flow.loop(
	id: string, // A unique ID for the loop construct
	options: {
		startNodeId: string,	// The ID of the first node in the loop body
		endNodeId: string,		// The ID of the last node in the loop body
		condition: string,		// An expression to evaluate. If true, the loop continues.
	}
)
```

### Example: A Simple Counter

Let's build a workflow that increments a counter from 0 to 5.

```typescript
import { createFlow } from 'flowcraft'

const flow = createFlow('loop-workflow')
	// 1. Initialize the counter in the context before the loop starts.
	.node('initialize', async ({ context }) => {
		await context.set('count', 0)
		return { output: 'Initialized' }
	})

	// 2. This is the body of our loop. It reads, increments, and saves the counter.
	.node('increment', async ({ context }) => {
		const currentCount = await context.get('count') || 0
		const newCount = currentCount + 1
		await context.set('count', newCount)
		console.log(`Count is now: ${newCount}`)
		return { output: newCount }
	})

	// 3. Define the loop.
	.loop('counter', {
		startNodeId: 'increment',
		endNodeId: 'increment', // The loop body is just one node.
		condition: 'context.count < 5' // Continue as long as this is true.
	})

	// 4. Define the edges.
	.edge('initialize', 'increment')
	.toBlueprint()
```

### How It Works

The `.loop()` method intelligently wires the graph for you. It adds a `loop-controller` node and creates the necessary edges. The resulting graph looks like this:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	initialize["initialize"] --> increment["increment"]
	increment --> controller["counter-loop"]
	controller -- "continue (context.count < 5)" --> increment
	controller -- "break" --> exit((Exit Loop))
```

1.  `initialize` runs once, setting `count` to 0.
2.  It triggers `increment`, which sets `count` to 1.
3.  `increment` completes and triggers `counter-loop`.
4.  The controller evaluates `"context.count < 5"`. Since `1 < 5` is true, it triggers `increment` again.
5.  This cycle repeats until `count` reaches 5. At that point, the condition is false, and the workflow branch terminates.

> **Note**: The `.loop()` method automatically configures the `joinStrategy` of the loop's start and end nodes to `'any'` so they can be re-executed on each iteration.

Commit message:

secure PropertyEvaluator for default loop condition expression handling
- BREAKING: Replace SimpleEvaluator with PropertyEvaluator as default
for security
- Add UnsafeEvaluator (renamed SimpleEvaluator) for complex expressions
with warnings
- Update FlowRuntime to use PropertyEvaluator by default
- Refactor tests to use UnsafeEvaluator where complex evaluation is
needed
- Add comprehensive tests for PropertyEvaluator
- Update examples (4_research) to use UnsafeEvaluator with security
notes
- Update documentation in loops.md and evaluator.md with security
guidance

docs/guide/loops.md, after:

# Loops

For workflows that require iteration, Flowcraft provides a `.loop()` method on the `Flow` builder. This allows you to execute a portion of your graph repeatedly until a condition is met.

## The `.loop()` Method

The `.loop()` method creates a special `loop-controller` node that manages the iteration. After the last node in the loop body executes, the controller evaluates a condition to decide whether to run the loop again or exit.

Here's the method signature:
```typescript
flow.loop(
	id: string, // A unique ID for the loop construct
	options: {
		startNodeId: string,	// The ID of the first node in the loop body
		endNodeId: string,		// The ID of the last node in the loop body
		condition: string,		// An expression to evaluate. If true, the loop continues.
	}
)
```

## Example: A Simple Counter

Let's build a workflow that increments a counter from 0 to 5.

```typescript
import { createFlow } from 'flowcraft'

const flow = createFlow('loop-workflow')
	// 1. Initialize the counter in the context before the loop starts.
	.node('initialize', async ({ context }) => {
		await context.set('count', 0)
		return { output: 'Initialized' }
	})

	// 2. This is the body of our loop. It reads, increments, and saves the counter.
	.node('increment', async ({ context }) => {
		const currentCount = await context.get('count') || 0
		const newCount = currentCount + 1
		await context.set('count', newCount)
		console.log(`Count is now: ${newCount}`)
		return { output: newCount }
	})

	// 3. Define the loop.
	.loop('counter', {
		startNodeId: 'increment',
		endNodeId: 'increment', // The loop body is just one node.
		condition: 'context.count < 5' // Continue as long as this is true.
	})

	// 4. Define the edges.
	.edge('initialize', 'increment')
	.toBlueprint()
```

### How It Works

The `.loop()` method intelligently wires the graph for you. It adds a `loop-controller` node and creates the necessary edges. The resulting graph looks like this:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	initialize["initialize"] --> increment["increment"]
	increment --> controller["counter-loop"]
	controller -- "continue (context.count < 5)" --> increment
	controller -- "break" --> exit((Exit Loop))
```

1.  `initialize` runs once, setting `count` to 0.
2.  It triggers `increment`, which sets `count` to 1.
3.  `increment` completes and triggers `counter-loop`.
4.  The controller evaluates `"context.count < 5"`. Since `1 < 5` is true, it triggers `increment` again.
5.  This cycle repeats until `count` reaches 5. At that point, the condition is false, and the workflow branch terminates.

> **Note**: The `.loop()` method automatically configures the `joinStrategy` of the loop's start and end nodes to `'any'` so they can be re-executed on each iteration.

## Security Considerations

> [!WARNING]
> By default, Flowcraft uses [`PropertyEvaluator`](/api/evaluator#propertyevaluator-class) for expression evaluation, which only allows simple property access (e.g., `result.output.status`). Complex expressions with operators like `<`, `>`, `===`, or `!==` (as shown in the example above) require the [`UnsafeEvaluator`](/api/evaluator#unsafeevaluator-class).
>
> If your loop condition uses comparison or logical operators, you must explicitly configure your runtime to use [`UnsafeEvaluator`](/api/evaluator#unsafeevaluator-class):
>
> ```typescript
> import { FlowRuntime, UnsafeEvaluator } from 'flowcraft'
>
> const runtime = new FlowRuntime({
>   evaluator: new UnsafeEvaluator(),
> })
> ```
>
> [`UnsafeEvaluator`](/api/evaluator#unsafeevaluator-class) uses `new Function()` and can execute arbitrary JavaScript code. Only use it in trusted environments where all workflow definitions are authored by trusted developers. For production systems, consider implementing a custom evaluator using a sandboxed library like `jsep`.
