docs/guide/visualizing-workflows.md, before:

# Visualizing Workflows

Understanding the structure of a complex workflow can be challenging just by reading code or JSON. Flowcraft includes a utility to generate [Mermaid](https://mermaid.js.org/) diagram syntax directly from a `WorkflowBlueprint`.

This makes it easy to visualize, document, and debug your workflows.

## `generateMermaid`

The `generateMermaid` function takes a blueprint and returns a string of Mermaid flowchart syntax.

```typescript
import { createFlow, generateMermaid } from 'flowcraft'

const flow = createFlow('conditional-workflow')
	.node('fetch', async () => ({ output: { value: 10 } }))
	.node('check', async ({ input }) => ({
		action: input.value > 5 ? 'big' : 'small'
	}))
	.node('process-big', async () => ({}))
	.node('process-small', async () => ({}))
	.edge('fetch', 'check')
	.edge('check', 'process-big', { action: 'big', condition: 'result.output > 0' })
	.edge('check', 'process-small', { action: 'small' })
	.toBlueprint()

const mermaidSyntax = generateMermaid(flow)
console.log(mermaidSyntax)
```

## Rendering the Diagram

The output of `generateMermaid` will be:
```
flowchart TD
	fetch["fetch"]
	check["check"]
	process-big["process-big"]
	process-small["process-small"]
	fetch --> check
	check -- "big | result.output > 0" --> process-big
	check -- "small" --> process-small
```

When this syntax is rendered by a tool that supports Mermaid (like this documentation site, GitHub markdown, or the Mermaid Live Editor), you get a clear visual representation of your workflow:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	fetch["fetch"]
	check["check"]
	process-big["process-big"]
	process-small["process-small"]
	fetch --> check
	check -- "big | result.output > 0" --> process-big
	check -- "small" --> process-small
```
Notice how the `action` and `condition` from the edges are automatically added as labels to the connections in the diagram.

Visualizing your workflows is an invaluable tool for:
-   **Debugging**: Quickly spot incorrect connections or logic flows.
-   **Documentation**: Automatically generate up-to-date diagrams for your team.
-   **Onboarding**: Help new team members understand the structure of complex processes.

Commit message:

enhance generateMermaid to include node parameters in diagram labels
- Include node params in Mermaid labels for richer visualization and
debugging
- Update docs/guide/visualizing-workflows.md with example and
description to reflect the new behavior

docs/guide/visualizing-workflows.md, after:

# Visualizing Workflows

Understanding the structure of a complex workflow can be challenging just by reading code or JSON. Flowcraft includes a utility to generate [Mermaid](https://mermaid.js.org/) diagram syntax directly from a `WorkflowBlueprint`.

This makes it easy to visualize, document, and debug your workflows.

## `generateMermaid`

The `generateMermaid` function takes a blueprint and returns a string of Mermaid flowchart syntax. Node labels include the node ID and, if present, the node's parameters for richer visualization.

```typescript
import { createFlow, generateMermaid } from 'flowcraft'

const flow = createFlow('conditional-workflow')
	.node('fetch', async () => ({ output: { value: 10 } }))
	.node('check', async ({ input }) => ({
		action: input.value > 5 ? 'big' : 'small'
	}), { threshold: 5 })
	.node('process-big', async () => ({}))
	.node('process-small', async () => ({}))
	.edge('fetch', 'check')
	.edge('check', 'process-big', { action: 'big', condition: 'result.output > 0' })
	.edge('check', 'process-small', { action: 'small' })
	.toBlueprint()

const mermaidSyntax = generateMermaid(flow)
console.log(mermaidSyntax)
```

## Rendering the Diagram

The output of `generateMermaid` will be:
```
flowchart TD
	fetch["fetch"]
	check["check<br/>params: {"threshold":5}"]
	process-big["process-big"]
	process-small["process-small"]
	fetch --> check
	check -- "big | result.output > 0" --> process-big
	check -- "small" --> process-small
```

When this syntax is rendered by a tool that supports Mermaid (like this documentation site, GitHub markdown, or the Mermaid Live Editor), you get a clear visual representation of your workflow:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
	fetch["fetch"]
	check["check<br/>params: {"threshold":5}"]
	process-big["process-big"]
	process-small["process-small"]
	fetch --> check
	check -- "big | result.output > 0" --> process-big
	check -- "small" --> process-small
```
Notice how the `action` and `condition` from the edges are automatically added as labels to the connections in the diagram.

Visualizing your workflows is an invaluable tool for:
-   **Debugging**: Quickly spot incorrect connections or logic flows.
-   **Documentation**: Automatically generate up-to-date diagrams for your team.
-   **Onboarding**: Help new team members understand the structure of complex processes.
