docs/api-reference/fn.md, before:

# API Reference: Functional Helpers

This document covers the functions provided by Flowcraft for a more functional-style approach to creating `Node` instances and simple workflows. All helpers are imported from the main `flowcraft` package.

```typescript
import {
	composeContext,
	contextNode,
	lens,
	mapNode,
	pipeline,
	transformNode,
} from 'flowcraft'
```

## `mapNode<TIn, TOut>(fn)`

Creates a `Node` from a simple, pure function that transforms an input to an output. The node's `params` object is passed as the single argument to the provided function `fn`. The result of `fn` becomes the `exec` result of the node.

### Parameters

- `fn: (input: TIn) => TOut | Promise<TOut>`: A synchronous or asynchronous function that takes an input object and returns a result. `TIn` corresponds to the type of the node's `params`.

### Returns

- `Node<void, TOut, any, TIn>`: A new `Node` instance that wraps the function.

### Example

```typescript
import { mapNode } from 'flowcraft'

// Define a reusable node that doubles the 'value' param
const doublerNode = mapNode((params: { value: number }) => params.value * 2)

// Use it in a flow
doublerNode.withParams({ value: 5 }) // This node will produce the result 10
```

## `contextNode<TIn, TOut>(fn)`

Creates a `Node` from a function that requires access to the shared `Context` in addition to its `params`.

### Parameters

- `fn: (ctx: Context, input: TIn) => TOut | Promise<TOut>`: A function that takes the `Context` as its first argument and the node's `params` as its second. The result of `fn` becomes the `exec` result of the node.

### Returns

- `Node<void, TOut, any, TIn>`: A new `Node` instance that wraps the function.

### Example

```typescript
import { contextKey, contextNode } from 'flowcraft'

const USER_NAME = contextKey<string>('user_name')

// A node that constructs a greeting using a value from the context
const greetingNode = contextNode((ctx, params: { punctuation: string }) =>
	`Hello, ${ctx.get(USER_NAME)}${params.punctuation}`
)
```

## `transformNode(...transforms)`

Creates a `Node` that is used purely for its side effect of modifying the `Context`. It does not produce an `exec` result. Its logic runs in the `prep` phase. It is often used with `ContextTransform` functions created by a `lens`.

### Parameters

- `...transforms: ContextTransform[]`: A sequence of `ContextTransform` functions. A `ContextTransform` is a function of the shape `(ctx: Context) => Context`.

### Returns

- `Node`: A new `Node` instance that will apply the context transformations when it runs.

### Example

```typescript
import { lens, transformNode } from 'flowcraft'

const NAME = contextKey<string>('name')
const AGE = contextKey<number>('age')
const nameLens = lens(NAME)
const ageLens = lens(AGE)

// A single node that sets both name and age in the context
const setupContextNode = transformNode(
	nameLens.set('Alice'),
	ageLens.set(30)
)
```

## `pipeline(...nodes)`

A functional-style alias for the `SequenceFlow` builder. It constructs a linear `Flow` where each node executes in the order it is provided.

### Parameters

- `...nodes: Node[]`: A sequence of `Node` instances to chain together.

### Returns

- `Flow`: A `Flow` instance representing the linear sequence.

## `lens<T>(key)`

Creates a `ContextLens` object, which provides a type-safe way to generate functions that interact with a specific key in the `Context`.

### Parameters

- `key: ContextKey<T>`: The `ContextKey` to focus on.

### Returns

- `ContextLens<T>`: An object with the following methods:
  - `.get(ctx: Context): T | undefined`: Retrieves the value for the key from the context.
  - `.set(value: T): ContextTransform`: Returns a function that, when called with a `Context`, will set the key to the provided `value`.
  - `.update(fn: (current: T | undefined) => T): ContextTransform`: Returns a function that updates the key's value based on its current value.

### Example

```typescript
const NAME = contextKey<string>('name')
const nameLens = lens(NAME)

// Create a transform function that sets the name to 'Alice'
const setNameTransform = nameLens.set('Alice')

// Create a node that applies this transform
const setNode = transformNode(setNameTransform)
```

## `composeContext(...transforms)`

Composes multiple `ContextTransform` functions into a single `ContextTransform` function. The transformations are applied in the order they are provided.

### Parameters

- `...transforms: ContextTransform[]`: A sequence of `ContextTransform` functions.

### Returns

- `ContextTransform`: A single function that applies all transformations.

Commit message:

update all examples and APIs for async context
This commit performs a comprehensive update across the entire
documentation suite to align with the new asynchronous `Context`
architecture.

Previously, all code examples and API signatures incorrectly showed
synchronous context interactions (`ctx.get()`). This has been corrected
system-wide.

Key changes include:
- All code examples in guides, recipes, and API references now correctly
use `async`/`await` for context operations.
- API reference documentation for `Context`, `Node`, `Flow`, and
functional helpers has been updated to reflect their new asynchronous
signatures.
- Explanations have been refined to describe the async nature of state
management.
- The `README.md` quick start has been rewritten to provide an accurate
and functional first user experience.

docs/api-reference/fn.md, after:

# API Reference: Functional Helpers

This document covers the functions provided by Flowcraft for a more functional-style approach to creating `Node` instances and simple workflows. All helpers are imported from the main `flowcraft` package.

```typescript
import {
	composeContext,
	contextNode,
	lens,
	mapNode,
	pipeline,
	transformNode,
} from 'flowcraft'
```

## `mapNode<TIn, TOut>(fn)`

Creates a `Node` from a simple, pure function that transforms an input to an output. The node's `params` object is passed as the single argument to the provided function `fn`. The result of `fn` becomes the `exec` result of the node.

### Parameters

- `fn: (input: TIn) => TOut | Promise<TOut>`: A synchronous or asynchronous function that takes an input object and returns a result. `TIn` corresponds to the type of the node's `params`.

### Returns

- `Node<void, TOut, any, TIn>`: A new `Node` instance that wraps the function.

### Example

```typescript
import { mapNode } from 'flowcraft'

// Define a reusable node that doubles the 'value' param
const doublerNode = mapNode((params: { value: number }) => params.value * 2)

// Use it in a flow
doublerNode.withParams({ value: 5 }) // This node will produce the result 10
```

## `contextNode<TIn, TOut>(fn)`

Creates a `Node` from a function that requires access to the shared `Context` in addition to its `params`.

### Parameters

- `fn: (ctx: Context, input: TIn) => TOut | Promise<TOut>`: An asynchronous function that takes the `Context` as its first argument and the node's `params` as its second. The result of `fn` becomes the `exec` result of the node.

### Returns

- `Node<void, TOut, any, TIn>`: A new `Node` instance that wraps the function.

### Example

```typescript
import { contextKey, contextNode } from 'flowcraft'

const USER_NAME = contextKey<string>('user_name')

// A node that constructs a greeting using a value from the context
const greetingNode = contextNode(async (ctx, params: { punctuation: string }) =>
	`Hello, ${await ctx.get(USER_NAME)}${params.punctuation}`
)
```

## `transformNode(...transforms)`

Creates a `Node` that is used purely for its side effect of modifying the `Context`. It does not produce an `exec` result. Its logic runs in the `prep` phase. It is often used with `ContextTransform` functions created by a `lens`.

### Parameters

- `...transforms: ContextTransform[]`: A sequence of `ContextTransform` functions. A `ContextTransform` is a function of the shape `(ctx: Context) => Context | Promise<Context>`.

### Returns

- `Node`: A new `Node` instance that will apply the context transformations when it runs.

### Example

```typescript
import { lens, transformNode } from 'flowcraft'

const NAME = contextKey<string>('name')
const AGE = contextKey<number>('age')
const nameLens = lens(NAME)
const ageLens = lens(AGE)

// A single node that sets both name and age in the context
const setupContextNode = transformNode(
	nameLens.set('Alice'),
	ageLens.set(30)
)
```

## `pipeline(...nodes)`

A functional-style alias for the `SequenceFlow` builder. It constructs a linear `Flow` where each node executes in the order it is provided.

### Parameters

- `...nodes: Node[]`: A sequence of `Node` instances to chain together.

### Returns

- `Flow`: A `Flow` instance representing the linear sequence.

## `lens<T>(key)`

Creates a `ContextLens` object, which provides a type-safe way to generate functions that interact with a specific key in the `Context`.

### Parameters

- `key: ContextKey<T>`: The `ContextKey` to focus on.

### Returns

- `ContextLens<T>`: An object with the following methods:
  - `.get(ctx: Context): Promise<T | undefined>`: Asynchronously retrieves the value for the key from the context.
  - `.set(value: T): ContextTransform`: Returns an async function that, when called with a `Context`, will set the key to the provided `value`.
  - `.update(fn: (current: T | undefined) => T): ContextTransform`: Returns an async function that updates the key's value based on its current value.

### Example

```typescript
const NAME = contextKey<string>('name')
const nameLens = lens(NAME)

// Create a transform function that sets the name to 'Alice'
const setNameTransform = nameLens.set('Alice')

// Create a node that applies this transform
const setNode = transformNode(setNameTransform)
```

## `composeContext(...transforms)`

Composes multiple `ContextTransform` functions into a single `ContextTransform` function. The transformations are applied in the order they are provided.

### Parameters

- `...transforms: ContextTransform[]`: A sequence of `ContextTransform` functions.

### Returns

- `ContextTransform`: A single async function that applies all transformations.
