docs/guide/advanced-guides/composition.md, before:

# Composition

One of the most powerful features of Cascade is its composability. Because a `Flow` is itself a type of `Node`, you can treat an entire workflow as a single building block within a larger, more complex workflow. This allows you to create highly modular, reusable, and maintainable systems.

## Why Use Composition?

- **Modularity**: Break down a large, monolithic workflow into smaller, self-contained sub-flows. Each sub-flow can manage its own internal logic and middleware.
- **Reusability**: Define a common workflow (e.g., "send a formatted email") once and reuse it in multiple different parent flows (e.g., "user registration flow", "password reset flow").
- **Clarity**: The parent flow becomes simpler and easier to read. Instead of a dozen small nodes, you might have three high-level sub-flows, making the overall business logic clearer.
- **Independent Testing**: Each sub-flow can be tested in isolation before being integrated into a larger system.

## How It Works

Composing flows is as simple as treating a `Flow` instance as if it were a `Node` instance and using it with methods like `.next()` or in builders like `SequenceFlow`.

When an executor's main orchestration loop is running a parent flow and encounters a `Flow` node (a sub-flow), it calls that node's `exec` method. The `Flow.exec` method then takes over and runs its *own* internal orchestration loop, executing its entire graph from start to finish.

The **final action** returned by the sub-flow's last node is then returned as the result of the `exec` method. The parent flow's executor uses this action to decide which of the sub-flow's successors to execute next, enabling conditional branching based on the outcome of an entire encapsulated workflow.

### Example: A Reusable "Math" Sub-Flow

Let's create a simple sub-flow that performs a calculation and a parent flow that uses it.

#### 1. Define the Sub-Flow

This sub-flow will take a number, add 10, multiply by 2, and then return a specific action based on the result.

```typescript
// sub-flow.ts
import { Flow, Node, contextKey, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

export const MATH_VALUE = contextKey<number>('math_value')

// A node that returns a different action based on the result
class CheckResultNode extends Node<void, void, 'over_50' | 'under_50'> {
  async post({ ctx }) {
    const value = ctx.get(MATH_VALUE)!
    return value > 50 ? 'over_50' : 'under_50'
  }
}

export function createMathFlow(): Flow {
  const addNode = new Node()
    .exec(async ({ params }) => params.input + 10)
    .toContext(MATH_VALUE)

  const multiplyNode = new Node()
    .exec(async ({ ctx }) => ctx.get(MATH_VALUE)! * 2)
    .toContext(MATH_VALUE)

  const checkNode = new CheckResultNode()

  addNode.next(multiplyNode).next(checkNode)

  const mathFlow = new Flow(addNode)
  return mathFlow
}
```

#### 2. Compose it in a Parent Flow

Now, the main workflow can use `createMathFlow()` as a single step.

```typescript
// main.ts
import { Flow, Node, TypedContext } from 'cascade'
import { createMathFlow } from './sub-flow'

// Create an instance of our reusable sub-flow
const mathSubFlow = createMathFlow()

// Create nodes for the parent flow's branching logic
const handleOver50Node = new Node().exec(() => console.log('Result was over 50.'))
const handleUnder50Node = new Node().exec(() => console.log('Result was 50 or under.'))

// The parent flow starts with the sub-flow.
const parentFlow = new Flow(mathSubFlow)

// Use the actions returned by the sub-flow to branch.
mathSubFlow.next(handleOver50Node, 'over_50')
mathSubFlow.next(handleUnder50Node, 'under_50')

// Run the parent flow with an input that will result in a value over 50.
// (20 + 10) * 2 = 60
console.log('--- Running with input 20 ---')
await parentFlow.withParams({ input: 20 }).run(new TypedContext())

// Run it again with an input that results in a value under 50.
// (5 + 10) * 2 = 30
console.log('--- Running with input 5 ---')
await parentFlow.withParams({ input: 5 }).run(new TypedContext())
```

The output will be:

```
--- Running with input 20 ---
Result was over 50.
--- Running with input 5 ---
Result was 50 or under.
```

As you can see, the parent flow's executor correctly branched based on the final action returned by the `mathSubFlow`, demonstrating seamless composition.

## Data Flow and Context

By default, the `Context` is **shared** between the parent and the sub-flow. The same context instance is passed through all nodes in the parent and all nodes in the sub-flow.

- **Pros**: This makes passing data between the parent and child flows trivial. A sub-flow can read data set by previous nodes in the parent, and subsequent nodes in the parent can read data set by the sub-flow.
- **Cons**: This "shared memory" model can lead to tight coupling and unexpected side effects if sub-flows are not carefully designed. A sub-flow could accidentally overwrite a context value that the parent flow depends on, leading to hard-to-debug issues.

Using descriptive and unique `ContextKey`s is a good practice to avoid accidental collisions.

For building more robust and modular systems where data boundaries are critical, it is highly recommended to implement a pattern that creates an explicit data contract between the parent and child. See the guide on **[Best Practices: Data Flow in Sub-Workflows](../best-practices/sub-workflow-data.md)** for a detailed explanation of this powerful pattern.

Commit message:

docs admonitions & alerts
Add Admonitions for Better Guidance

Strategically placed alerts (`[!NOTE]`, `[!TIP]`, `[!IMPORTANT]`,
`[!CAUTION]`, etc.) have been added throughout the guides and API
reference to:
- Highlight best practices (e.g., using `contextKey` over strings).
- Warn about potential pitfalls (e.g., `JSON.stringify` limitations,
shared context in sub-flows).
- Guide the user's attention to crucial information for success (e.g.,
how cancellation and retries work).

These changes make the documentation more proactive, helping developers
understand core design principles and avoid common mistakes.

docs/guide/advanced-guides/composition.md, after:

# Composition

One of the most powerful features of Cascade is its composability. Because a `Flow` is itself a type of `Node`, you can treat an entire workflow as a single building block within a larger, more complex workflow. This allows you to create highly modular, reusable, and maintainable systems.

## Why Use Composition?

- **Modularity**: Break down a large, monolithic workflow into smaller, self-contained sub-flows. Each sub-flow can manage its own internal logic and middleware.
- **Reusability**: Define a common workflow (e.g., "send a formatted email") once and reuse it in multiple different parent flows (e.g., "user registration flow", "password reset flow").
- **Clarity**: The parent flow becomes simpler and easier to read. Instead of a dozen small nodes, you might have three high-level sub-flows, making the overall business logic clearer.
- **Independent Testing**: Each sub-flow can be tested in isolation before being integrated into a larger system.

## How It Works

Composing flows is as simple as treating a `Flow` instance as if it were a `Node` instance and using it with methods like `.next()` or in builders like `SequenceFlow`.

When an executor's main orchestration loop is running a parent flow and encounters a `Flow` node (a sub-flow), it calls that node's `exec` method. The `Flow.exec` method then takes over and runs its *own* internal orchestration loop, executing its entire graph from start to finish.

The **final action** returned by the sub-flow's last node is then returned as the result of the `exec` method. The parent flow's executor uses this action to decide which of the sub-flow's successors to execute next, enabling conditional branching based on the outcome of an entire encapsulated workflow.

### Example: A Reusable "Math" Sub-Flow

Let's create a simple sub-flow that performs a calculation and a parent flow that uses it.

#### 1. Define the Sub-Flow

This sub-flow will take a number, add 10, multiply by 2, and then return a specific action based on the result.

```typescript
// sub-flow.ts
import { Flow, Node, contextKey, TypedContext } from 'cascade'

export const MATH_VALUE = contextKey<number>('math_value')

// A node that returns a different action based on the result
class CheckResultNode extends Node<void, void, 'over_50' | 'under_50'> {
  async post({ ctx }) {
    const value = ctx.get(MATH_VALUE)!
    return value > 50 ? 'over_50' : 'under_50'
  }
}

export function createMathFlow(): Flow {
  const addNode = new Node()
    .exec(async ({ params }) => params.input + 10)
    .toContext(MATH_VALUE)

  const multiplyNode = new Node()
    .exec(async ({ ctx }) => ctx.get(MATH_VALUE)! * 2)
    .toContext(MATH_VALUE)

  const checkNode = new CheckResultNode()

  addNode.next(multiplyNode).next(checkNode)

  const mathFlow = new Flow(addNode)
  return mathFlow
}
```

#### 2. Compose it in a Parent Flow

Now, the main workflow can use `createMathFlow()` as a single step.

```typescript
// main.ts
import { Flow, Node, TypedContext } from 'cascade'
import { createMathFlow } from './sub-flow'

// Create an instance of our reusable sub-flow
const mathSubFlow = createMathFlow()

// Create nodes for the parent flow's branching logic
const handleOver50Node = new Node().exec(() => console.log('Result was over 50.'))
const handleUnder50Node = new Node().exec(() => console.log('Result was 50 or under.'))

// The parent flow starts with the sub-flow.
const parentFlow = new Flow(mathSubFlow)

// Use the actions returned by the sub-flow to branch.
mathSubFlow.next(handleOver50Node, 'over_50')
mathSubFlow.next(handleUnder50Node, 'under_50')

// Run the parent flow with an input that will result in a value over 50.
// (20 + 10) * 2 = 60
console.log('--- Running with input 20 ---')
await parentFlow.withParams({ input: 20 }).run(new TypedContext())

// Run it again with an input that results in a value under 50.
// (5 + 10) * 2 = 30
console.log('--- Running with input 5 ---')
await parentFlow.withParams({ input: 5 }).run(new TypedContext())
```

The output will be:

```
--- Running with input 20 ---
Result was over 50.
--- Running with input 5 ---
Result was 50 or under.
```

As you can see, the parent flow's executor correctly branched based on the final action returned by the `mathSubFlow`, demonstrating seamless composition.

## Data Flow and Context

> [!WARNING]
> **Sub-flows Share Context by Default**
> The same `Context` instance is passed through all nodes in the parent and all nodes in the sub-flow. While simple, this "shared memory" model can lead to tight coupling and unexpected side effects if sub-flows are not carefully designed. A sub-flow could accidentally overwrite a context value that the parent flow depends on.

- **Pros**: This makes passing data between the parent and child flows trivial. A sub-flow can read data set by previous nodes in the parent, and subsequent nodes in the parent can read data set by the sub-flow.
- **Cons**: This "shared memory" model can lead to tight coupling and unexpected side effects if sub-flows are not carefully designed. A sub-flow could accidentally overwrite a context value that the parent flow depends on, leading to hard-to-debug issues.

Using descriptive and unique `ContextKey`s is a good practice to avoid accidental collisions.

For building more robust and modular systems where data boundaries are critical, it is highly recommended to implement a pattern that creates an explicit data contract between the parent and child. See the guide on **[Best Practices: Data Flow in Sub-Workflows](../best-practices/sub-workflow-data.md)** for a detailed explanation of this powerful pattern.
