docs/guide/advanced-guides/middleware.md, before:

# Middleware

Middleware provides a powerful mechanism to hook into the execution of nodes within a `Flow`. It allows you to wrap the logic of every node, making it the ideal pattern for handling **cross-cutting concerns** without cluttering your business logic.

## What is Middleware?

A middleware is a function that sits between the `Executor` and the `Node` it is about to execute. It receives the node's arguments and a `next` function. The middleware can perform actions before calling `next()` to proceed with the node's execution, and after `next()` returns to process the result.

This is conceptually similar to middleware in web frameworks like Express or Koa.

## Common Use Cases

- **Performance Monitoring**: Start a timer before `next()` and record the duration after it completes to measure how long each node takes.
- **Authentication/Authorization**: Check if the current context has valid credentials before allowing a node to run.
- **Transaction Management**: Start a database transaction before the first node in a flow and commit or roll it back after the flow completes.
- **Input/Output Validation**: Validate a node's parameters before execution or its results after execution.
- **Centralized Logging**: Implement structured logging for every node's entry and exit. See the [Logging Guide](./logging.md) for more on this topic.

## How to Use Middleware

You can add middleware to any `Flow` instance using the `.use()` method. You can add multiple middleware functions; they will be executed in the order they are added.

### The Middleware Function Signature

A middleware function has the following signature:

```typescript
type Middleware = (args: NodeArgs, next: MiddlewareNext) => Promise<any>
type MiddlewareNext = (args: NodeArgs) => Promise<any>
```

- `args`: The `NodeArgs` object, containing the `ctx`, `params`, `logger`, etc., for the node about to be executed.
- `next`: A function that you must call to pass control to the next middleware in the chain, or to the node itself if it's the last one.

### Example: Database Transaction Middleware

A classic use case for middleware is managing a database transaction. We want to start a transaction before the flow runs and either `COMMIT` it on success or `ROLLBACK` on failure.

Let's assume we have a `dbClient` with `beginTransaction`, `commit`, and `rollback` methods.

```typescript
// A mock database client
const dbClient = {
	beginTransaction: async () => console.log('[DB] ==> BEGIN TRANSACTION'),
	commit: async () => console.log('[DB] <== COMMIT'),
	rollback: async () => console.log('[DB] <== ROLLBACK'),
	query: async (sql: string) => console.log(`[DB] Executing: ${sql}`),
}

// Our transaction middleware
async function transactionMiddleware(args, next) {
	// This middleware only acts on the top-level Flow, not individual nodes.
	// We check the node's name to apply the logic selectively.
	if (args.name !== 'TransactionFlow') {
		return next(args)
	}

	await dbClient.beginTransaction()
	try {
		// Call next() to execute the entire wrapped flow
		const result = await next(args)
		await dbClient.commit()
		return result
	}
	catch (error) {
		console.error('[DB] Error occurred, rolling back transaction.')
		await dbClient.rollback()
		// Re-throw the error so the top-level caller knows the flow failed
		throw error
	}
}

// Nodes that simulate database operations
class CreateUserNode extends Node {
	async exec() { await dbClient.query('INSERT INTO users...') }
}
class UpdateProfileNode extends Node {
	async exec() { await dbClient.query('UPDATE profiles...') }
}

// A specific Flow class to attach the middleware to
class TransactionFlow extends Flow {}

// Create a flow with a couple of nodes
const flow = new TransactionFlow(new CreateUserNode())
flow.startNode.next(new UpdateProfileNode())

// Apply the middleware
flow.use(transactionMiddleware)

// Run it
console.log('--- Running successful transaction ---')
await flow.run(new TypedContext())
```

When this runs, the transaction is correctly committed:

```
--- Running successful transaction ---
[DB] ==> BEGIN TRANSACTION
[DB] Executing: INSERT INTO users...
[DB] Executing: UPDATE profiles...
[DB] <== COMMIT
```

If a node were to fail, the `try...catch` block in the middleware would catch the error and issue a `ROLLBACK`, ensuring data integrity. This powerful pattern keeps your business logic nodes (`CreateUserNode`) clean and unaware of transaction management.

Commit message:

align docs with new features and logging
Updates the documentation to reflect the latest framework enhancements,
focusing on improved developer experience and the new "silent core"
logging model.

Key updates include:
- **New Base Classes:** The `workflow.md` API reference and the
introductory `guide/index.md` now prominently feature the new
`ExecNode`, `PreNode`, and `PostNode` classes, guiding users toward
these simpler patterns.
- **Logging Guide Rewrite:** The `logging.md` guide has been completely
rewritten to explain the "opt-in via middleware" pattern for detailed
tracing, removing outdated information about built-in logs.
- **Middleware Guide Update:** The `middleware.md` guide now documents
the `node` property on `NodeArgs`, explaining how it enables advanced
use cases like traversal logging.
- **Best Practices & Recipes:** The `debugging.md` guide now recommends
middleware for tracing. The `creating-a-loop.md` and other recipes have
been updated to use the new, more concise base classes.
- **General Polish:** Corrected various links to be absolute URLs and
ensured consistency across all related documents.

docs/guide/advanced-guides/middleware.md, after:

# Middleware

Middleware provides a powerful mechanism to hook into the execution of nodes within a `Flow`. It allows you to wrap the logic of every node, making it the ideal pattern for handling **cross-cutting concerns** without cluttering your business logic.

## What is Middleware?

A middleware is a function that sits between the `Executor` and the `Node` it is about to execute. It receives the node's arguments and a `next` function. The middleware can perform actions before calling `next()` to proceed with the node's execution, and after `next()` returns to process the result.

This is conceptually similar to middleware in web frameworks like Express or Koa.

## Common Use Cases

- **Centralized Logging**: Implement structured logging for every node's entry and exit. See the [Logging Guide](./logging.md) for a complete example.
- **Performance Monitoring**: Start a timer before `next()` and record the duration after it completes to measure how long each node takes.
- **Authentication/Authorization**: Check if the current context has valid credentials before allowing a node to run.
- **Transaction Management**: Start a database transaction before the first node in a flow and commit or roll it back after the flow completes.
- **Input/Output Validation**: Validate a node's parameters before execution or its results after execution.

## How to Use Middleware

You can add middleware to any `Flow` instance using the `.use()` method. You can add multiple middleware functions; they will be executed in the order they are added.

### The Middleware Function Signature

A middleware function has the following signature:

```typescript
type Middleware = (args: NodeArgs, next: MiddlewareNext) => Promise<any>
type MiddlewareNext = (args: NodeArgs) => Promise<any>
```

- `args`: The `NodeArgs` object for the node about to be executed. It contains:
  - `ctx`: The shared `Context`.
  - `params`: The node's static parameters.
  - `logger`: The logger instance for the run.
  - `node`: The `AbstractNode` instance itself. This is crucial for advanced middleware that needs to inspect the graph (e.g., `node.successors`).
- `next`: A function that you must call to pass control to the next middleware in the chain, or to the node itself if it's the last one.

### Example: Database Transaction Middleware

A classic use case for middleware is managing a database transaction. We want to start a transaction before the flow runs and either `COMMIT` it on success or `ROLLBACK` on failure.

Let's assume we have a `dbClient` with `beginTransaction`, `commit`, and `rollback` methods.

```typescript
// A mock database client
const dbClient = {
	beginTransaction: async () => console.log('[DB] ==> BEGIN TRANSACTION'),
	commit: async () => console.log('[DB] <== COMMIT'),
	rollback: async () => console.log('[DB] <== ROLLBACK'),
	query: async (sql: string) => console.log(`[DB] Executing: ${sql}`),
}

// Our transaction middleware
async function transactionMiddleware(args, next) {
	// This middleware only acts on the top-level Flow, not individual nodes.
	// We check the node's name to apply the logic selectively.
	if (args.name !== 'TransactionFlow') {
		return next(args)
	}

	await dbClient.beginTransaction()
	try {
		// Call next() to execute the entire wrapped flow
		const result = await next(args)
		await dbClient.commit()
		return result
	}
	catch (error) {
		console.error('[DB] Error occurred, rolling back transaction.')
		await dbClient.rollback()
		// Re-throw the error so the top-level caller knows the flow failed
		throw error
	}
}

// Nodes that simulate database operations
class CreateUserNode extends Node {
	async exec() { await dbClient.query('INSERT INTO users...') }
}
class UpdateProfileNode extends Node {
	async exec() { await dbClient.query('UPDATE profiles...') }
}

// A specific Flow class to attach the middleware to
class TransactionFlow extends Flow {}

// Create a flow with a couple of nodes
const flow = new TransactionFlow(new CreateUserNode())
flow.startNode.next(new UpdateProfileNode())

// Apply the middleware
flow.use(transactionMiddleware)

// Run it
console.log('--- Running successful transaction ---')
await flow.run(new TypedContext())
```

When this runs, the transaction is correctly committed:

```
--- Running successful transaction ---
[DB] ==> BEGIN TRANSACTION
[DB] Executing: INSERT INTO users...
[DB] Executing: UPDATE profiles...
[DB] <== COMMIT
```

If a node were to fail, the `try...catch` block in the middleware would catch the error and issue a `ROLLBACK`, ensuring data integrity. This powerful pattern keeps your business logic nodes (`CreateUserNode`) clean and unaware of transaction management.
